---
layout: post
title: "Notes on DNS and Zooko's Triangle"
date: 2016-09-14 16:18:38
categories: post
---
The Domain Name System is a distributed database of records (importantly mappings) used in looking up servers and resources. They contain numerous records that are meant to direct queries to their appropriate servers in the appropriate way. Mostly this is by finding the authority that has ownership over the requested server, which other unrelated authorities have records pertaining to, and then letting that authority handle the specifics of routing when to that specific server (under all servers they own). From there the server handles the request and the programmers (or, rather, whoever funded them) are in control. DNS services also have the function of authorizing (and sometimes verifying) ownership over a domain, so they have the responsibility of updating their mappings whenever any relevant aspect of the records change or when an expiration date has been reached. These functions have ended up being entrusted to a small number of trusted corporate entities.

The technical management of DNS is the responsibility of VeriSign, but they do the worked ordered and authorized by the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA). This begins a path through a modest corporate chain from the Internet Corporation for Assigned Numbers and Names (ICANN) to the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) back to the United States Department of Commerce, whose stated purpose in this multi-stakeholder approach is to 'ensure the long-term viability of the Internet as a force for innovation and economic growth.

The actual history of how this arose is more complicated. Originally much of IANA was managed by a computer scientist in southern California. When he died a contract passed many of these functions to ICANN, specifically stipulating that IANA would have to answer to ICANN. There have been attempts to change the order of authority that IANA and even ICANN answer to, but the US Department of Commerce, though not opposed to the idea, refuses to let it be another government or the UN. This issue gained renewed interest post-Snowden's releases when concerns were raised over the implications of US dominance over basic or important functions of the Internet.

DNS is only one proposal of how to name participants in a network protocol, all of which have their weaknesses. Zooko Wilcox-O'Hearn theorized that any naming system can only ever attain two of three desirable properties: (1) human meaningful, (2) decentralized, and (3) secure. These relations aren't perfect. With the exception of being human meaningful, most sacrifices are only partial. DNS, for example, is widely distributed, but even that depends on centralization in key areas.

DNS really only has the first property, being human meaningful, though DNSSec is meant to add security by providing verification services. For this to work, however, it relies on a small number of trusted corporate entities, which are most vulnerable to legal attacks by governments and corporations that could force them to censor, manipulate, or delete records considered undesirable.

There are many alternative proposals, though they all have this same dilemma. For example Tor's `.onion` links are secure and decentralized, but are not human memorable (being derived from cryptographic hashes). GADS links, which are fundamental to GNUnet name spaces, attempt to be human meaningful and decentralized but sacrifice some security in the process (against, for example, Sybil attacks).

Nick Szabo has attempted to theoretically route this problem by introducing a completely public database with a voting system. The scale of the database would require that forgeries attain a number of votes &gt;=(1/4)n, `n` being the total number of votes, which is a high threashold for a conspiracy on any given forgery.

There are several issues with this. First is that it seems to assume that all those with the ability to vote would cast a vote. If that percentage is significantly reduced, to a third for example, then the threashold would either be reduced to a fourth of a third of all votes, or any given vote would require a substantial majority. It is theoretically possible to have every party vote, as "voting" is done by providing a mathematically sufficient quantity of correct information to limit the negative effects of malicious information. If attacks can be contained within certain bounds, then, this could be a very efficient means of maintaining the validity of the distributed records. This would really depend on the algorithm used for the actual lookup. A random walk might be seen as best, though this necessitates a certain difficulty for all users (as there is no obvious distinction between malicious and benign users) to add themselves to the system. Conversely, it could simply try to identify anomalies where behaviors that are unique to malicious actors arise. Again, the problem is in the specifics of adding entities to the system and how observable/controllable that process is.

Szabo's system does not protect against the creation of name conflicts, but it does provide a complete history of naming so to better adjudicate when conflicts arise. This relies, even internal to Szabo's proposal, on trusted authorities, which are determined according to trust metrics. This involves a certain amount of centralization, though not much more than is often the case in decentralized networks where certain trusted nodes perform more important functionality. This could be seen as an acceptable tradeoff given that a major vulnerability of decentralized systems is the simplicity with which malicious actors can gain the same access and privileges as legitimate users.

There is also reliance on third parties to address issues of squatting and fallow domains, determining whether squatters have legitimate claims on an essentially unused domain or are maliciously attempting to steal away a legitimate property claim.

DNS is one of many aspects of the Internet that are indispensable but little considered. The actual functions of DNS leave users vulnerable from certain angles and secure from others. Yet users have little awareness of these processes, even in the abstract, less still the implications of their specific methodologies. It seems very unlikely in the present political and cultural landscape that this situation would improve, so there's not much reason for hope, but it is certain that the Internet, and thus all social forms derived from it, will take the shape of the container it's placed in.

References<br>
https://gnunet.org/sites/default/files/schanzen2012msc.pdf
http://szabo.best.vwh.net/securetitle.html
http://blogs.wsj.com/washwire/2014/03/17/icann-101-who-will-oversee-the-internet/
